# Book-Scape-Explorer
My project aims to extract books data from Google books API to store in the database and provide data analytical insights and visualization from the fetched data using Streamlit app.


At start create your virtual environment using python -m venv "your environment name" in visual code terminal so that it wont affect your global packages in your PC. A file named Activate.ps1 in your scripts folder under "your environment name" will appear, copy it's path and run it in thee terminal, now your environment is activated . Then install required packages using pip install command such as pip install streamlit, pip install matplotlib, pip install pymysql. Now enable your API key from google boooks API by creating a project and enabling API key there, copy that API key and paste in your code creating a variable named API_key. Then connect to your database using pymysql or any other package like mysql.connector. Create a page in streamlit with a text input to enter search keyword as input and number input as number of datas can be retrieved from the google books API based on the keyword name. Then create a function to fetch and store books datum in our database, now create a query to create a table and insert the results in it to store all the datas in our database and call the function inside the datum fetching function to store them in the same process. Then create another tab to visualize data analytics function. I've assigned 20 functions there based on 20 questions given to me in assignment. It will provide us data analytics of the datas that we fetched currently, so we store the datum from fetch books data function and store it using new table which is temporary,it will work only once per code because I'll drop the code per every function. So all my 20 functions has create temp table function and drop temp table function. Then i used matplotlib to create charts and graphs for data visualisation other than data framing the datas for each function. In the end , I completed my objectives to create the stremlit app named Book Scape Explorer where i fetch datum from Google books API and store the dataum in my database and analyze the datum. 
